There are two keys to understanding how to build a risk mitigation plan in this scenario.
The first is understanding that while patches are considered critical,
that does not necessarily translate to critical risks.
In fact, you assess the likelihood of exploitation as medium and the impact is high.
Now we didn't talk about mitigating controls.
So we may still need to better understand if there are
other factors at play that might reduce risk.
Regardless, building a risk mitigation plan
probably starts in this case with discussing with
the control owner the most appropriate way and how to implement critical patches.
But we do have one other key element.
We also know that patch management policies aren't being followed.
This is probably another conversation with control owners,
but here you have some additional options.
You may need to work with your governance team to make sure that
they are measuring the effectiveness of the policy control.
Or you may simply need to
reinforce the need to follow the patch management policy more closely.
The point is that defining mitigation plans
involves input from control owners, and other stakeholders.